=begin comment

$Id$

=end comment

=head1 NAME

Allegro::Sound - Allegro sound initialization/volume routines

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   use Allegro;

   $al    = Allegro->new() or die;
   $sound = $al->Sound() or die $al->error;

   $sound->volume(digi => 50);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module includes the routines to initialize the Allegro sound card 
drivers.

Both Allegro::Sample and Allegro::MIDI will use this module implicitly, so 
you don't need a "use Allegro::Sound".

=head1 METHODS

=over

=item B<new>

Installs the digital sound and MIDI drivers.

   $al->Sound(digi => 'auto',
              midi => 'none');

Currently only C<auto> and C<none> are valid drivers.

=over

=item I<digi>

Desired digital card driver.  Defaults to 'auto'.

=item I<midi>

Desired MIDI driver.  Defaults to 'none'.

=back

=item B<shutdown>

Uninstalls both the digital sound and MIDI drivers.

   $sound->shutdown;

=item B<volume>

Sets global volume.

   $sound->volume(digi => $digital_volume,
                  midi => $midi_volume);

=over

=item I<digi>

Digital sound volume.  Valid values are 0-255.

=item I<midi>

MIDI volume.  Valid values are 0-255.

=back

Either may be omitted to keep the current volume.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Colin O'Leary <colino@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2003 by Colin O'Leary.  All rights reserved.  This program is 
free software;  you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same
terms as Perl itself.

The Allegro library is copyright its authors, and is giftware.  See 
http://alleg.sf.net for more information.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<Allegro> - Base Allegro routines

=item L<Allegro::Sample> - Digital sound routines

=item L<Allegro::MIDI> - MIDI routines

=back

